alright let's move on to the next
challenge challenge number 12
so the challenge here is to write a regular
expression that will match a five-digit
us zip code
so use 11111 as your test string so figure that one
out
pause the video and come back when
you're ready to go through my solution
pause the video alright challenge 12 how
do we actually do this so we're going to
put in our test string....
....so challenge
is actually quite simple it's going to
be...
....
...
....so we wanted to use the start and
end boundary matches because we want the
entire string to match and we use the
/d character class which will
match any digit and then use a
quantifier to specify that I wanted
5 digits let's check that actually
works and we got a true their showing
that it works alright next challenge
challenge number 13
so us zip codes can be followed by dash
and another 4 numbers so write a
regular expression that will match those
zip codes so use 11111-111 as your test string
so see if you can figure that one out
pause the video now and i'll see you
when you get back ok so challenge 13 so
will enter our string firstly....
....
...
so this one is fairly straightforward we're just
adding a dash after the regular
expression for challenge 12 and then we
expect four digits so the final palette
expression is essentially the same as
the beginning all we have to do is change
the number in the quantifier now if we
were trying to verify user input we
could check the length of the input and
from there decide which regular
expression to use but ideally it would
be nice to have one regular expression
that would match both cases but lets
actually just check to see whether this
actually works before we move on to the
last challenge we got a true there
so that one works alright final
challenge challenge 14
so write a regular expression that will
match a five-digit us zip code and zip
codes that contain the optional four
digits preceded by a dash in other words
matching both challenge 12 and challenge
13 in the one regular expression
see how you go with that one
pause the video now i'll see you when
you get back
ok challenge 14 how we go about actually
solving this one what we can do is we're
going to use the challenge 12 and
challenge 13 strings that we defined in
the previous challenges so print out
firstly challenge 12....
...
....
...we're going to put the
question mark...
....
...so basically I've actually modified
the expression by enclosing the optional
part the dash and four numbers within a
group and following the group with the ?
modifier which means that a quantifier
I should say which means that they can be
0 or 1 occurrences of the group and we
wouldn't want to use the plus or star
quantifies in this case because then we
match strings like 11111-1111
so we run this now we should find that
both the post codes now match this you can
see we've got true for both and
whenever you want need to write a
regular expression that matches a piece
of data like a zip code
telephone number email address etc we
can usually find regular expressions
that solve these problems on the web but
my suggestion here is to be careful and
that's because there's a lot of
variations and in some cases much debate
about which one is correct
also the regular expressions can be
wrong or incomplete for example if you do a
search you can actually find this
regular expression for a Canadian
postcode i'm just going to paste it in
because we're not going to produce any
code so that's the example there this
regular expression expects a letter
followed by digit followed by letter
then they will optionally be a blank or
a dash
and then a number followed by letter
followed by a number this matches
post codes like my m1a 1m1 but here
the regular expression is wrong because
canadian post codes can't contain
certain letters and they're generally
aren't written using a dash although that's
not strictly wrong the point here is to
remember that not everything you see on
the internet is true especially with the
regular expressions
alright so that concludes our regular
expression challenge and actually this
section of the course regular
expressions can be challenging and to
write and decipher but you'll get the hang
of it with practice practice practice so
i hope you enjoyed this section time to
move on to the next one now